In winter, when the plants are dormant, winter pruning needs to be done (mainly on fruit trees, herbaceous perennials, ...)
During the rest of the year, some weeding also needs to be done.
These activities generate a lot of "waste biomass" (dried-out stalks and grasses, twigs, pulled weeds, ...) so 
what options are there to  get rid of this and recirculate the nutrients of this waste matter back into your garden ?

The easiest way to get rid of dried-out stalks and grasses is to just burn them.
However, this poses a fire risk and generates a lot of smoke, both of which can cause problems (environmental laws, 
annoyed neighbours, ...) Relatively speaking, it does not harm the environment at all (because wildfires are also natural, and 
there are no CO2 emissions -because the CO2 it releases was first absorbed from the environment in the first place-, but it indeed 
does cause some air pollution which is probably the reason why the burning of plant matter is no longer allowed in some 
countries/regions.

Looking at the weed problem, the easiest way is to recycle the nutrients of this and get rid of it is to put it into a compost 
pile. However, for small gardens this too may not be an option since composting does create smell, takes up a lot of space, and 
does not look appealing (that last one is particularly a problem in small gardens as you can't really hide it well). You can add 
bacteria by adding cow manure or "compost starter" (which could speed up the process and perhaps reduce the smell slightly) but it 
won't solve the smell issue completely or eliminate the space issue.

So looking on, what other options are there ?
For dried stalks and twigs you could burn it in your fireplace or wood stove (because if doing so, you would be in-line with 
regulations, and the neighbours won't complain either). The ashes can be dispersed in your garden to recycle most nutrients 
therein. That said, you may not own a fireplace or stove, or you may no longer use it.

For the weed problem, you may opt to biodigest it (meaning you simply submerging it in water tanks). This might solve the space 
issue (as biodigestion may sometimes be quicker to decompose material than regular composting) and you can also make compost tea 
from it (which benefits crops if poured near them) but the smell is even worse (and it again does not look appealing). 
There is also the vermicomposting option, which composes things rather quick, but again it takes up space and it is not appealing, 
and even requires periodic checking-up/nursing of the worms. Also, you can't allow any worms to escape as red wigglers are 
most often non-native in your area.

Then, looking even further we find the option of trench composting (which is suitable for both dried stalks and twigs and weeds):
we can simply landfill them (bury with soil, also called "trench composting", or "hügelkultur mounds" if heaped unto piles).
This eliminates the esthetics problem, space issue and smell but you may run out of soil to bury things under quickly. 
This as it does not decompose quickly, especially if you have poor soil or if the soil's pH is too low or too high.
To deal with that last issue, the speed of decomposition, we can place some berries (i.e. Ribes spp.) or shrubs or other perennials 
next to it (wide spacing) and inoculate these with mycorrhizal fungi. This method is a bit similar to the arborloo (as it speeds up
decomposition by withdrawing nutrients into the berries or shrubs). Also, fungi feed on lignin (such as found in twigs, ...) and 
it is often this material which takes the longest to break down. So by using this technique we should be able to speed up the 
process considerably.
