Obtaining the grains

First, you need to harvest the upper portion of the plant (ie using a scythe or sickle). 
Then, separate off the heads from the stalks (= threshing). You can do this using a wooden stick/bat (=flailing).
It's best to beat the stalks with their heads placed inside a sack, so that any seed that releases immediately, 
falls into the sack. Then seperate off the grain from the heads (=winnowing). You can do this by using sieves (see
http://www.homesteadandgardens.com/winnowing-methods-cleaning-dry-seed/ )
Store the grains in a dry and dark place, at a temperature below 15°celsius. Some can be used for replanting purposes.

Next, grind the grains using a (manual or electric) grain mill.

Making bread with the obtained flour:

Sourdough bread recipe
First, you need to make the starter:
Do this by mixing 250 grams of white flower (ie wheat flower, ...) with 250 milliliters of water, and adding 5 seedless chopped 
green grapes. Then, put in an airtight container (i.e. mason jar). Leave to stand for 2 days, then divide the mixture over 2 mason
jars and add (125 grams of) flour and (125 milliliter of) water in both. Leave to stand for another 4 days, the starter is then 
ready. Note that you can keep rejuvenating your starter indefinitely by continuously splitting the mixture and then adding flour 
and water.

Making the sourdough bread:
add 370 grams of flour to the 250 grams sourdough starter; add 249,5 milliliter (*1) of water, and 12,4 grams of salt (*2) 
-dissolve the salt in the water first befor adding-. Kneed the dough for 10 minutes. Add a splash of olive oil.
Put in a bowl, cover with plastic, leave to rise for a few hours; then kneed again for a few minutes (pushing out the trapped air),
put in the bowl again, cover and leave to rise again for 3 to 5 hours. Put in the oven at 200°C for 50 minutes.

Yeast-based bread ("bloomer") recipe
The ingredients needed for this are:
- 500 grams of white flour
- 325 milliliter of water (*1)
- 10 grams of salt (*2)
- 7 grams of yeast (*3)
- splash of olive oil

The method to make the bread is similar to the sourdough bread (also requires kneeding - rising period - kneeding - 2nd rising 
period -, just like the sourdough bread).

Th bloomer needs to be given 2 incisions on the bread with a knife, and then needs to be baked in an oven at 220°C for 25 minutes. 
You may also want to add a tray with some water in it at the bottom of the oven; this will create some steam effect which will make
the bread even better.

Notes
*1: 65% of the amount of flour
*2: 2% of the amount of flour
*3: 1,4% of the amount of flour
